2020-02-10 19:01:54
CSS Grid and Tufte Layouts

Edward Tufte has strong ideas regarding the effective presentation of ideas. One of the hallmark ideas is the side-bar or margin note, where supporting information can remain as close as possible to the main body text without disrupting the natural flow of reading. I wanted to start with that idea for this site's design, but find a "Tufte CSS" to be very challenging to implement in a flexible, responsive design.

A web page can be viewed on such a wide range of display devices.

In general, we no longer need to worry (much) about the color capability of these displays; I am not presenting images that fall apart on cheap, uncalibrated phones. Color used to be a huge problem for web pages, even when designers used only [web safe colors].

So a huge range of color capability is no longer the crazy it used to be. Everything else, though, is all over the place.

I am not a graphic designer. Maybe graphic designers learn how to focus. Limitations can help define the design, to sharpen the focus. Using real essays and graphics that I want to share, I tried to see if I could find some simple design elements that I could translate into web bits.

I am still missing some key skills. So I will have to go with what I've got.

A "Tufte CSS" idea has been done, by people who no doubt are better at putting their ideas into the real world than I am. (If they were as bad about publication as I am, I would never have found their work.) So far, though, I haven't found what I want when it comes to display-size responsiveness and simplicity. So I had to give it a shot.

You can examine the source of these pages. Basically, the idea is a wide margin on the right of the primary text, into which I can insert figures and short text notes.

```css
  article > p {
    width: 60vw;
  }

  .margin {
    width: 28vw;
    float: right;
  }
  ```

Simple. A use-case that seems natural enough of an application of
`float`.

You might try this with CSS Grid. While Grid and such can get you the columns, it's not flexible when it comes to the alternate axis. For columns, that would be the rows. For I want a margin note to _start_ with the text that references that note, but in some cases, the note may extend vertically past the end of its main body paragraph. I want the note to simply run down its track in the margin, without pushing down any subsequent content in the main column. CSS Grid won't create extra rows in only one column or another; any new row adds that row to every column.

You can get an element to run across more than one grid cell. That's a
`span`. But spans are a set value, a specific number that's baked into the CSS. A block of content can't dynamically choose to span across fewer or more rows, whatever needed. It gets complicated.

Usually, complexity of mine own creation is a red flag. Tells me that maybe that spoon doesn't need to be a hammer. (Although that would be cool.)
  - hammerspoon

The bug that remains after my simple `float` approach is the challenge of lining up the figure with its parent text. An HTML `figure` is a new block context, and it breaks up its parent `p`. Maybe I could convince CSS to hammer that particular spoon with `display: inline block;` -- its role with respect to its parent (`inline`) and its role for its contained children `block`.