2020-02-15 01:37:31MST
git submodule insanity

In order to properly add the IBM Plex font repo as a submodule, I needed to perform some surgery on the stock repository, because the full development sources with all supported alphabets and all supported font formats, plus repo history, comes in at about 750 MB.

Yes, I can just point to a subdir of Google Fonts. Or -- better question -- why not just use Google Fonts and forget these horrid hacks to fold the fonts into my blog source repo?

At the moment, I don't think that Google hosts variable fonts. And I want to have the option of using those.

Still, given the amount of work today to add a workable IBM Plex typeface repo, it is not worth the trouble. It isn't. So I probably should not do this.

Because another consideration besides repo management is font subsetting. Google Fonts, as a service, strives to be state of the art in serving up just the subset of glyphs needed for a particular set of Unicode glyphs. The IBM Plex Sans Variable Font is not subsetted into code points at the moment: you get the whole range.

But in order to add some hours to my git experience, I decided to dive into this anyway.

## Undoing Submodules

Always have an escape route.

During the course of this experiement, I discovered that the git repo subsetting tool that I was using does not work for me as documented. Path Globs were ignored, leaving me with an empty repo. One that you can't back out of with git, because the whole point here is to throw away history.

So I have a local clone of IBM Plex font repo, and I copy that into a working area, then perform the trimming on the copy of the clone. And fail, wipe out the working copy, repeat copy my local clone into work area, fail... (There is a computer programmer and shampoo joke in here somewhere.)

I kept a copy of these instructions on undoing a submodule up in front of me.
[https://gist.github.com/myusuf3/7f645819ded92bda6677]

## Filtering a Repository

I used the `git-filter-repo` tool.
[https://github.com/newren/git-filter-repo#filter-branch]

But the `--path-glob` options would be blown off, ignored. Maybe I was doing it wrong. But the commands as in the examples just didn't work for me.
[https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/newren/git-filter-repo/blob/docs/html/git-filter-repo.html#EXAMPLES]
Instead, I had to stick with `--path`; multiple such options worked fine. I used some editing in a scratch text editor window to help me "unroll" the globs myself.

```bash
git filter-repo \
  --path IBM-Plex-Mono/fonts/split/woff2 \
  --path IBM-Plex-Mono/fonts/complete/woff2 \
  --path IBM-Plex-Sans-Variable/fonts/complete/woff2 \
  --path IBM-Plex-Serif/fonts/split/woff2 \
  --path IBM-Plex-Serif/fonts/complete/woff2 \
  --path IBM-Plex-Sans/fonts/split/woff2 \
  --path IBM-Plex-Sans/fonts/complete/woff2 \
  --path LICENSE.txt \
  --path README.md \
  --path package.json
```

## Add the Filtered Repo as a Submodule

Remember, we're in a working directory here, lobotomizing the poor IBM Plex font...

Once I got the repo trimmed down to the files I want to track, I added that as a submodule via a local copy. This is all kinds of stupid, but it gets my basic setup closer to what I want:

```bash
cd css/_fonts/_vendor/ibm

git submodule add --depth=1 file:///var/tmp/plex
```


