2020-02-17 16:57:04 -0700

## Automatic Dark Mode

- Windows 10: https://www.makeuseof.com/tag/auto-toggle-dark-mode-windows-10/

## Dark Mode CSS

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-color-scheme

## Get User's Location

- Windows 10: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/maps-and-location/get-location


```powershell
Add-Type -AssemblyName System.Device #Required to access System.Device.Location namespace
$GeoWatcher = New-Object System.Device.Location.GeoCoordinateWatcher #Create the required object
$GeoWatcher.Start() #Begin resolving current locaton

while (($GeoWatcher.Status -ne 'Ready') -and ($GeoWatcher.Permission -ne 'Denied')) {
    Start-Sleep -Milliseconds 100 #Wait for discovery.
}  

if ($GeoWatcher.Permission -eq 'Denied'){
    Write-Error 'Access Denied for Location Information'
} else {
    $GeoWatcher.Position.Location| ConvertTo-JSON
}
```

I find it remarkable that this code is so simple, and yet I bashed my head trying to wrap around PowerShell enough to filter the output so that I can round the longitude, latitude to a single decimal point. Of course there should be a trivial way to map a function onto a list of values, but the result isn't a list, but rather it is a custom object. Usual object iteration sort of works, but is every bit as awful to read as my corresponding Swift code on macOS.

After flailing at that particular goal -- finding some pipe by which I could apply maths to each numeric value of an object -- after flail and fail, I tried to go with something more modest: signing the script with a digital signature so that I could apply a reasonable execution policy to it.

Ha.

Every bit as charming. Thanks to very many people who have gone there before me, and thanks to Google for indexing these tails, I thrashed about with self-signed certificates, trying to determine the mapping between what I was seeing in the PowerShell console and what I could see in the various GUI presentations from the MMC, the Management Console.

I wish that the nomenclature were more consistent between the two. It would help me follow along. The names displayed in the MMC are more verbose, and I suppose they are slightly more descriptive, but I would not necessarily claim that the MMC names are more clear.

In any event, I did indeed generate a self-signed cert, and use that to spawn a code-signing cert. Those were more easily done from the PowerShell command line. Which is to say that I could not find a GUI that would generate the certs. There is one, there are no doubt five or six such tools lurking about in any modern Windows system, but I could not find them. So I used PowerShell.

But PowerShell refused to move certs from 'User' to 'Local Machine' stores. Moving the certificate over from one spot to another in the MMC was a trivial drag-and-drop.

I got my script signed, after a few hours of thrashing. Then like and idiot, I tweaked the text of the script a bit. Of course, now that it was sigend, any change made to the script rendered it absolutely forbidden by PowerShell. The whole point of signing scripts is, after all, to limit permissions to a very precise constraint. An executable that has been tampered with after signing it off is a no-go.

Ah, good times, I stuck with it, out of a misplaced sense of nostalgia. You see, I had been through this very procedure of signing a text script with an X509 certificate a few times before. First time in 1997, signing JavaScript in Netscape Navigator. Netscape 4.0 exposed an API to JavaScript for opening pop-up windows that were bare, not styled by the usual window decorations. Obviously, you can draw screens that look just like the native desktop environment, rather than a web page. The idea of dialogs that looked legit, encouraging folks to enter their user name and password -- well, yeah. So Netscape would pop up a warning dialog before displaying any such bare window, unless the script that did so was signed. Many problems with that, and I never saw it mentioned afterwards. Maybe I was one of the twelve people who actually tried that out before it was all considered too much of good fight, in the face of Microsoft shipping Internet Explorer which allowed ActiveX controls to be streamed over the wire. Security. Yikes.

How many of you were alive in 1997? Oh, good. Me too.

Anyhow. PowerShell. If you look at the code, it is admirably concise: essentially a single object, an instance of `System.Device.Location.GeoCoordinateWatcher`. You tell it to start, then ask it for the location info. Pipe it through a JSON conversion and you are done. Very nice.

Note how easy it is to map a native API into a usable syntax: you add an "assembly" that imports the Windows GeoLocation API into the script's namespace. We could do that in Visual Basic in 1997, it has always indeed been a very strong basis for the Windows userland developer options.

And yet, for all its elegance, Windows is such a mess. I'm typing this in Visual Studio Code, which is acting as a network remote front-end to the file and language services running on a Linux host over the local network. Except that the Linux host is actually a Hyper-V virtual machine running on the same laptop, and also its a special case of such a machine, the Windows Subsystem for Linux, and so there are two filesystems I need to map, and so on like that. The dichotomy of the GUI interfaces -- the layers of legacy GUI interfaces -- on Windows, versus the various command line shells, is a stark contrast to the similar operations on macOS. On the Mac, the system really is running a Unix-like environment. You can drag anything from the GUI Finder onto a command shell terminal, and it plops the filesystem path of the item as text into your shell.  On Windows, there are the wacky C:\Dos\legacy\path\sequences, and then on the WSL the /mnt/c/same/file/paths are rather different. You have to map back and forth between them. Furthermore, the Windows GUI apps all use the 'control' key as the command key to initiate GUI operations, menu shortcuts. Control-C is 'Cut' on Windows, and it sends an interrupt signal on Unix terminal environments. There is a Windows key, but of course you can't touch it. Bash on Windows uses the same Emacs-like keybindings for moving around - ctrl-E for the end of line and so on - but since that shadows the usual GUI convention of control-C for copy etc you have to use right-mouse-button for copy and paste in the terminal windows...

It's really a mess. Over the years they have tried to clean things up. Windows CE was like a foreshadow of simplified, stripped down good parts version of the Windows desktop environment. Apple managed to do this successfully with iOS, the same system architecture stripping out every user-space embellishment to get it running on a hand-held device. Windows CE was less of a success, the institutional need to waltz in the tar pits, in the name of keeping things familiar to desktop Windows users.

Sigh.

